# Twitter-Bot
"Tech Job Search Bot" created to retweet and follow technology companies hiring!

Twitter Bot: Tech Job Search

Joanna Parkhurst

CAN BE FOUND AT: https://twitter.com/TechJobBot (Terminal Run, not currently active)

DESCRIPTION & BACKGROUND: When brainstorming Twitter bot ideas at the dinner table with some friends, the question, “Who even uses Twitter anymore?” was raised. One of my roommates said she created one earlier this year for the sole purpose of networking and showing potential employees more about herself and interests. For example, before a career fair or info session she would tweet to that specific company about how excited she was to meet them. Needless to say, she is a job search/CS guru so I immediately started thinking of ways I could use this project to find an internship for next summer and help others do so in the process! Before I started, I did a bit of research on twitter to see what hashtags and companies are popular in this area. I searched for articles and accounts that I found helpful and compiled a list of hashtags that are most often used. In addition to hashtags about interview prep and finding positions to apply to, I added a couple hashtags to humanize the account – things like "GirlsWhoCode" and "WomenInTech" illustrate a passion for the industry and a greater purpose. In addition, I wanted to create an element of connection and networking in the bot. I then brainstormed a list of my top “dream companies” for an internship next summer and started following them. From there I started working on the bot itself. I created a random number generator so that the hashtags and companies retweeted would appear to be out of choice for the material itself. With each new tweet, the bot randomly chooses between whether to find a hashtag to retweet or to connect with a company by retweeting their most recent tweet. I’m already really excited about how well it turned out and can’t wait to see what this will look like after a couple of days. Throughout my internship search process so far I’ve learned that networking and preparing for interviews is a lot of time and effort in addition to school. I love the usefulness and efficiency of this bot – I hope that it will attract many other twitter users who are in a similar position as myself. Although learning javascript was much more difficult than I expected and my account was not only temporarily suspended but hacked, I’m really happy with the end result!
